Summary
=============

In the age of big data, artificial intelligence (AI) is transforming earth sciences by enabling efficient analysis of complex datasets and fostering innovative approaches to solve age-old challenges. Kalpa, a Python-based geospatial software, represents a pioneering step in this direction. Built with versatility at its core, Kalpa seamlessly integrates AI and machine learning workflows into geoscience applications, offering unparalleled customization through its Python plugin architecture. Kalpa's capabilities span advanced 3D visualization, geospatial data processing, and machine learning model development. It supports global and regional raster and vector datasets, allowing for interactive analysis in both spherical and cartesian coordinates. With tools to process satellite imagery, geological and geophysical data, unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) data, and digital geological maps, Kalpa caters to a wide range of disciplines, from mineral exploration to natural hazard prediction. Its machine learning integration supports supervised and unsupervised algorithms for applications such as paleotopography reconstruction, mineral prospectivity mapping, city planning, agricultural productivity optimization and natural hazard mapping. Designed with an intuitive interface and robust export features for publication-ready outputs, Kalpa bridges the gap between domain-specific expertise and cutting-edge AI methodologies. By empowering earth scientists, environmental researchers, and GIS professionals to analyze, model, and predict with precision, Kalpa sets a new frontier in the application of artificial intelligence to earth sciences.